you
3d printing has been around for almost
25 years now but for a long time it was
used for engineers and by engineers for
prototyping new products that they would
then mass-produce what we did in 2007 is
we realized basically that hey why don't
we use this amazing technology to give
anyone access to manufacturing why don't
we use this technology these 3d printers
to make actual final products the 3d
prints it's a rapid prototyping
technology the same way that you might
carve something out of wax or make a
little sculpture glue a bunch of
matchsticks together and make a castle
is the same way now you might sit down
at your computer and use a CAD program
like Rhino or our maiya to sculpt
something and then print it out so for
me 3d printing was a way to bring
together art and science like I was able
to express the artistic thing that I
could see in my head but use really
precise techniques and and technology to
realize that if you understand 3d
printing to me the deposition and or
fusing of material by layer it really
opens up what you could consider 3d
printing to be I think the most
interesting advancements in terms of
where 3d printing is and is going
have to do with dimensionality and
materials so both at the small scale of
dimensions and the large scale like
people are getting parts scanned in
their body to get custom implants made
for like if they're having heart
troubles and things like that
or at the very very big scale like the
large gantry mounted kind of building
scale applications I think those are
really interesting and then shifting out
of plastics into things like ceramics
like other biological materials that
people are looking at printing and
really that opens up what 3d printing is
and what its applications can be in a
kind of exponential rate in terms of
where would go and what you would do
with it
it's a good time for experimentation
it's a good time to think about how
something that's as old as the clothing
industry could be redefined with new
technologies we use digital fabrication
technologies and software techniques to
invent what fashion design means for a
digital age artists are always the early
adopters we essentially want to be the
first fashion label that's software we
started working with 3d printing because
we like this idea of like could we make
clothing without sewing having one
machine that can make really impossible
shapes is it's a huge benefit so this is
a 3d printed bikini so design of the
bikini was really about designing this
generative textile like designing a way
for 3d printed to be almost like fabric
and it be flexible and fit to the body
and so how this is done is after we
modeled this 3d shape it actually fills
the surface that you want with this
geometry that creates this fabric like
structure it packs the circles closer
and smaller at the edges and then
towards the middle sections you have
bigger circles and this is nice because
it actually like looks interesting for a
bikini and its aesthetic as well as
functional
so we've done some work with 3d printing
we felt that people really understood
shoes so our goals is to actually have
like a dedicated shoe printer in a store
and then people could like print their
shoes or you could even have like
basically a printer you would buy just
to be able to make yourself as many
shoes as you want inspiration I think is
one of the things that most people need
to really get started especially with
new technology so now what we've
therefore created our creators encode
and our co-creation platform is where
you can adapt in a very fun and easy way
existing designs so Shapeways we built
the basic platform to enable people to
upload and print the designs they care
for you can share it with your friends
you can even open a shop and you can
start selling your new invention you're
no creative idea to a worldwide audience
the one thing that's really interesting
about this technology is that it's more
accessible because it's more accessible
it's not only the hardware it's more
accessible it's also the language that
it's coding been coded in is more
accessible also the learning resources
that you need to be able to do it
yourself is also more accessible right
so now all of a sudden the big walls
that existed before in terms of who had
the privilege of being able to create
what and largely dictate how people used
it or gone but again I mean I think it
just goes down to the fact that you know
information is everywhere now everyone
has access to it and it's very easy to
do whatever you want with it
the technology that exists today it also
shapes the way that you think about what
the possibilities of tomorrow might be
you know so if you have a great idea
that idea might not be ready to come
into the world yet until there's a
mechanism put in place right that makes
that idea now realizable
people are comparing the 3d printing
revolution to the revolution that
happened with personal computing I don't
necessarily think there'll be a 3d
printer in every home but I think
there'll be a 3d printed product in
every home there'll be an application
for it for everyone